README.md, before:

# AutoMower-BLE

This is an unofficial reverse engineered Husqvarna Automower Connect BLE library. This allows connecting and controlling an Automower without any accounts, cloud or network connection.

<noscript><a href="https://liberapay.com/alistair23/donate"><img alt="Donate using Liberapay" src="https://liberapay.com/assets/widgets/donate.svg"></a></noscript>

This library is written with the intent of integrating into Home Assistant, but it can be used independently as well.

Details on how this was developed are available at: https://www.alistair23.me/2024/01/06/reverse-engineering-automower-ble

This was developed and tested against a Automower 305, but it should work on all Automowers. If you are able to test on different models please do and report any results back.

## Installation
This library can be installed by 
```shell
pip3 install automower-ble
```
Please note that the library is under active development and that the code on github might not be released for pip.

## Testing Connections

You can test querying data with the following

```shell
python3 ./mower.py --address D8:B6:73:40:07:37
```

You can uncomment parts of `async def main(mower)` to send commands.

To get the address, the `ble_scanner.py` script can be run.

## Unit testing for developers

Unit tests are found in the /tests/ folder.

You can run the unit tests with [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org). Install it by `pip3 install pytest`. In the root path, just run

```shell
pytest
```


## Debugging logs on an Android phone

You can get Bluetooth debug logs from an Android phone which will help development for new features, unknown codes
or implementation of extra devices. To debug you need to enable developer mode on your
Android handset/tablet (and have the manufacturer app installed to communicate with your mower)

To enable debug mode on Android:

* Go into settings and System (Sometimes this is in About phone). Look for the "Build number" entry.
* Tap this several times, onscreen you should then see a note confirming by tapping 7 times developer mode will be enabled.
* Once enabled, click BACK and you'll see a "Developer Options" menu. In there scroll to find "Enable Bluetooth HCI snoop log".
* Set "Enable Bluetooth HCI snoop log" to "Enabled"
* Turn bluetooth OFF then back ON to enable the logging.

Go into your mower app and carry out the commands, making a note of precise time you send the command to the mower.
Once you've captured the commands, to retrieve the log you can either grab it using your phones file browser.
The file location is /data/misc/bluetooth/logs
The filename is btsnoop_hci.log
(This varies, for example Samsung phones store them elsewhere)

An alternative is to use the adb via usb to retrieve the log. Plug your phone in via usb and use adb to download your
bug report:
  adb bugreport MyFilename
(This will generate a bugreport and save it as MyFilename.zip)
Extract that zip file and the bluetooth HCI snoop file is in FS/data/log/bt/btsnoop_hci.log

These bluetooth hci snoop files (btsnoop_hci.log) are in wireshark file format so use wireshark to view them.
You can then see the commands sent and received from your mower and can then decode/investigate the commands.

Commit message:

Added command parameters to mower for simple control

README.md, after:

# AutoMower-BLE

This is an unofficial reverse engineered Husqvarna Automower Connect BLE library. This allows connecting and controlling an Automower without any accounts, cloud or network connection.

<noscript><a href="https://liberapay.com/alistair23/donate"><img alt="Donate using Liberapay" src="https://liberapay.com/assets/widgets/donate.svg"></a></noscript>

This library is written with the intent of integrating into Home Assistant, but it can be used independently as well.

Details on how this was developed are available at: https://www.alistair23.me/2024/01/06/reverse-engineering-automower-ble

This was developed and tested against a Automower 305, but it should work on all Automowers. If you are able to test on different models please do and report any results back.

## Installation
This library can be installed by 
```shell
pip3 install automower-ble
```
Please note that the library is under active development and that the code on github might not be released for pip.

## Testing Connections

You can test querying data with the following

```shell
python3 ./mower.py --address D8:B6:73:40:07:37
```

You can uncomment parts of `async def main(mower)` to send commands, or send commands using parameters:

```shell
python3 ./mower.py --address D8:B6:73:40:07:37 --command park
```

Where command is one of:
  park
  pause
  override
  resume

(override will run for 3hrs)

To get the address, the `ble_scanner.py` script can be run.

## Unit testing for developers

Unit tests are found in the /tests/ folder.

You can run the unit tests with [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org). Install it by `pip3 install pytest`. In the root path, just run

```shell
pytest
```


## Debugging logs on an Android phone

You can get Bluetooth debug logs from an Android phone which will help development for new features, unknown codes
or implementation of extra devices. To debug you need to enable developer mode on your
Android handset/tablet (and have the manufacturer app installed to communicate with your mower)

To enable debug mode on Android:

* Go into settings and System (Sometimes this is in About phone). Look for the "Build number" entry.
* Tap this several times, onscreen you should then see a note confirming by tapping 7 times developer mode will be enabled.
* Once enabled, click BACK and you'll see a "Developer Options" menu. In there scroll to find "Enable Bluetooth HCI snoop log".
* Set "Enable Bluetooth HCI snoop log" to "Enabled"
* Turn bluetooth OFF then back ON to enable the logging.

Go into your mower app and carry out the commands, making a note of precise time you send the command to the mower.
Once you've captured the commands, to retrieve the log you can either grab it using your phones file browser.
The file location is /data/misc/bluetooth/logs
The filename is btsnoop_hci.log
(This varies, for example Samsung phones store them elsewhere)

An alternative is to use the adb via usb to retrieve the log. Plug your phone in via usb and use adb to download your
bug report:
  adb bugreport MyFilename
(This will generate a bugreport and save it as MyFilename.zip)
Extract that zip file and the bluetooth HCI snoop file is in FS/data/log/bt/btsnoop_hci.log

These bluetooth hci snoop files (btsnoop_hci.log) are in wireshark file format so use wireshark to view them.
You can then see the commands sent and received from your mower and can then decode/investigate the commands.
